How to build your resume during job search in Canada 🇨🇦 

I have got a lot of questions on resume format when applying for job. I am not a professional content writer. But here are my 2 cents & some guidelines which I generally follow. 

Resume is the most important document required for a job search. Even with referrals, it is important to have a resume which stand out. Resume are the deciding factor for getting selected for interviews. 

In one word, your resume should be IMPRESSIVE. 🌅

Resume should be: 
Impressive
Short & small
Easy to read
Clear on what you are intending to communicate

What to have in Resume ✅
Name
Role
Phone Number
Email address
Location (only town, state)
Skill set
Current experience along with past experience
Education

Optional, but will be helpful: 
*Certifications (adds huge value)
*Publications (adds huge value)
*Patents / Research paper (adds huge value)
*Link to personal portfolio (adds huge value)
Linked-in url
*Link to your work, case studies etc. (adds huge value)

Should not be in the resume🚫
Do not provide your resident status (e.g. PR, citizen, work permit). 
Do not mention your confidential details (e.g. SIN, UCI etc.) 
No need to mention your residential address in your resume. Be careful, since its public once you update the job sites. 
References (Usually references are asked after you get a job)
Notice period details
Irrelevant details which doesn't add value to the job you apply

How to write your experience section:
You need to provide the skill sets which you are good at 
Ensure you mention the year gap in a nice way. Do not skip the years because it creates lot of confusion. 
You need to provide details of the experience at your previous organizations (do not mention confidential details)
Instead of writing generic designation of your previous role (e.g. Software Developer), use focused keyword based on your role (e.g. Java developer or .net developer)
DO NOT simply write Roles & Responsibilities of your job. Write things which you have done, achievements. Try NOT to exaggerate (e.g. Saved 500K $ in 1 year unless its green dollars) 💸

Be careful🔴
Do not write fake experience 
Do not write skill set which you don't know
Proof read your resume. There have been multiple instances where the resume contains lot of errors. Usually hiring manger rejects the resumes if they see multiple issues. 
Do not confuse the readers (e.g. writing multiple experiences in same period, your linked-in profile and resume doesn't match, gap in years which is not clarified)

General guidelines🟢
I usually keep my resume only 2-3 pages. 
I focus only on writing detailed experience for past 5 years. For the remaining career, I divert the audience to Linked-in
I have my case studies, portfolio, research data, articles outside of resume & provide a link to those in my resume
Keep it focused. Do not write lot of generic sentences which doesn't make value.
