Career break..!!

Struggling to get back to Industry after a career break?

Life is uncertain and sometimes we have to take a break from the career to take care of personal things. It doesn't stop you from getting back to the industry in 30 days. Do these 5 steps. 

1. Upgrade your skills - This is the most important step. You need to understand what are the required skills in the market and should learn. 90% of the candidates try to get back with the skills they had, not even bother to upgrade and hence fails. 

2. Reach out to your old network - This is not to ask for opportunities. But to understand what they are working on, what skill set are actually required, where can you find the resources to learn etc. 

3. Get a mentor - Find a mentor who can help you overcome the challenges during job search. This person will support you and mentor each and every step in the journey. 

4. Improve your profile - Prepare a stunning resume, make your linked-in impressive, get endorsements/recommendations. Transform your profile from average to excellent. 

5. Showcase your work - Do some case studies, tools evaluation, write articles on latest tools/technologies, prepare a professional blog site, make a website on your own, have a tableau dashboard (for data analysts). Publish all these work & put it in your resume/linked-in. You should have something to showcase which will help you gain the attention from recruiters and hiring managers. 

Detailed steps:
1. Search the job board for the job role you are looking for. Note down the most asked skills, tools for that role 
2. Prepare a plan for you to upgrade your skills based on the requirements 
3. Get a mentor, share the plan with him, get his help to understand what is currently happening in the industry 
4. Refresh your social media profile such as Resume, Linked-in & portfolio 
5. Start writing articles, blogs, posts, code, charts on the things you learned 
6. Do some case studies on some of the transformation programs in the industry & prepare a presentation 
7. Upskill, upskill, upskill 
8. Start preparing for interviews, work with mentor & work on some mock interviews 
9. Work on your professional relationships, start attending meetups, attend workshops/bootcamps 
10. Prepare your resume well. 90% of the times, candidate gets rejected at resume review 


Do these steps and improve your chances of getting hired. 
